# Introduction
18Uruguay is an 18xx train game set in Uruguay emphasizing the hugely influential investments of the British, the domestic production and the European import thereof, as well as the nationalization and the final expulsion of British financial control. What sets it apart is a train roster that includes hips, a pickup-and-deliver mechanism that boosts run value, Company specific destinations affecting the capitalization, foreign investment possibilities, as well as a ”story” arc that culminates in a rather climactic nationalization event.

# Overview
The game begins with a private company auction. Play then proceeds by alternating Stock Rounds with sets of Operating Rounds. During Stock Rounds, layers launch, invest in, and trade shares in the companies. During Operating Rounds, the President (the majority stock holder) of each company directs them to build track, and stations, run routes with its trains, while also delivering goods to ports, possibly pay dividends to its shareholders, and buy new trains. A railroad’s stock price depends on both investments and stock trades by players and the dividends it pays. Additionally the British Investment company RPTLA (The River Plate Trust, Loan & Agency Company, ltd) operates by exporting goods to Europe, profiting from interest of the loans they have been giving, and purchasing ships to be able to keep exporting.
Trains and ships are grouped in phases, representing technological advances. Once the first train or ship of a type is purchased, the game phase advances, affecting various game aspects. One of those aspects are the Nationalization that ends the British involvement, closes the RPTLA, launches the FCE (Uruguayan state railway) and potentially taking over companies still in debt.
The game end is triggered when the first D/4D-train is bought. After the following Stock Round a set of three Operating Rounds conclude the game.