# 1858 implementation notes and todo list

## Rough implementation plan

1. ~~Setup map, tiles and market~~
2. ~~Game with public companies availble from the start, no privates.~~
3. ~~Track laying.~~
4. ~~Tokening.~~
5. ~~H/M/E/D trains.~~
6. ~~Private auctions.~~
7. Exchanging privates for shares in public companies.
8. Track lays by privates.
9. Starting a public company from a private.
10. ~~5-share to 10-share conversions.~~
11. Private closure round.
12. ~~Quick start variant.~~


## Operating rounds

### Operating round steps

Privates owned by players pay revenue at the start of the operating round.
Privates lay track in numerical order, then public companies operate in stock market order.

1. ~~Place track.~~
2. ~~Place token.~~
3. ~~Run trains.~~
4. ~~Distribute earnings.~~
5. Close privates.
6. ~~Buy trains.~~
7. ~~Issue or redeem shares.~~


### Track laying.

- ~~Two track lays, either or both can be upgrades, second costs Pt20.~~
- Only public companies can upgrade track.
- ~~Track laying costs (terrain or second tile) are halved for metre gauge track.~~
- ~~Semi-restrictive upgrades.~~
- ~~Routes for laying/upgrading track cannot include both metre and broad gauge track.~~
- ~~Yellow metre gauge track is only available after first 4H/2M train is bought.~~
- Private companies do not pay terrain costs for their home hexes.
- Private companies' first track lay must be in a home hex, unless there is already track there.
- The private companies' home hexes are reserved, track can only be laid by the privates, or a public company that owns the private. If the hex is shared by two private companies then either can lay the track.
- Some private companies have linked home hexes, track on these must be laid connecting them together.
- Players must pay any costs for terrain or second track lays for private companies.
- ~~Players can pay the costs for terrain if a public company cannot afford it.~~
- ~~Players can pay the costs for second track lays if a public company cannot afford it. This is a variant, but the recommended way to play.~~


### Tokening

- ~~Routes for tokening cannot include both metre and broad gauge track.~~
- ~~Token costs are Pt40/provincial border crossed, or Pt20 if in the same province.~~
- ~~Public companies floated in phase 5 or later lay their home station when floated. It can be in any unoccupied city circle, and costs twice city's value (zero if the city has not yet been built).~~
- Station spaces are reserved for private companies. A public company can ignore this restriction if it owns the private company.


### Trains

- ~~H trains count hex sides crossed.~~
- ~~E/M/D trains count large cities, off-board areas and ports visited.~~
- ~~E/D trains ignore small cities.~~
- ~~M trains count small cities. Their routes can start and end at small cities.~~
- ~~D trains double the value of the places visited.~~
- ~~H/E/D trains only run on broad or dual gauge track.~~
- ~~M trains only run on metre or dual gauge track.~~
- ~~Wounded trains halve the value of their runs.~~
- ~~Wounded trains can be discarded during the train buying step.~~
- ~~Wounded trains count against train limit.~~
- ~~Wounded trains can be bought across.~~
- ~~Discarded wounded trains are removed from play.~~
- ~~6H/3M trains are rusted by the fifth grey train (7E/6M/5D) train purchased.~~


### Emergency money raising

- ~~A company is not obliged to own a train. It moves one space left on the stock market if it does not own a train at the end of its turn.~~
- ~~Can issue shares from the treasury, move one space left for this.~~
- ~~Director can contribute cash from hand.~~
- ~~Director cannot sell shares.~~
- ~~EMR can only be used to buy a train from the bank or the pool.~~
- ~~Don't have to buy the cheapest train.~~
- ~~EMR can be used to buy an expensive train even if a cheaper one could be bought without EMR.~~
- ~~EMR does not happen if not enough can be raised to afford a train.~~


### Distribute earnings

- Privates owned by public companies pay their income as train revenue.
- ~~Public companies pay in full, half pay or withhold.~~
- ~~For odd earnings: divide revenue by five or ten, round down and pay that per share. The remainder gets paid to the company treasury.~~
- ~~Shares in the company treasury earn dividends, those in the bank pool do not.~~
- ~~Only move right if 10×dividend ≥ share price. No multiple jumps.~~
- After revenue is paid, any privates owned by a public company close


## Stock rounds

- On a turn you can do multiple sell actions, and then a single buy action.
- Priority is the player to the left of the last person to take an action.
- First stock round is the same as any other, except you cannot start a public company.
- ~~60% limit on public company ownership.~~
- ~~50% limit on shares in the pool.~~
- ~~Cannot sell director's certificate.~~
- ~~Stock price only drops for sales by the director, and is one space only.~~
- Can start public companies directly after the start of phase 5. 20% to float.


### Sell actions

- ~~Sell shares.~~
- Exchange a private company for a public company share. They must be connected. By consent only. Exchange for a share from the company treasury. Can place free token in private company's home, does not need to be connected to this hex.
- ~~Convert public company from 5-share to 10-share. Can be done in the same round that the company forms.~~


### Buy actions

- ~~Buy one public company share.~~
- Start a public company.
- ~~Auction a private company.~~


### Private closure round

- Occurs after the end of the operating round in which the first 5E/4M train is bought.
- Privates closure in numerical order.
- Each company is exchanged for a public company share, or sold to the bank for face value.
- Must be connected to exchange for a share.
- Need consent to be exchanged for a treasury share, do not need consent for a pool share.
- If exchanged for a treasury share, the public company receives the private's face value to its treasury.
- Can go over 60% ownership in this round, do not need to sell down.
- Unsold private companies close.


### End of game

- ~~End of the operating round in which the bank breaks, or the end of the next operating round if it breaks during a stock round.~~
- ~~Does not end if the top of the stock market is reached.~~
- ~~Cannot go bankrupt.~~


## Map

- Need to show private companies' home hexes.
- ~~Add port symbol to A16 and J1?~~
- Add province names? Would probably just clutter the display.
- Check spelling of all place names.
